MOLECULAR DISSOCIATION OF WATER

A PROJECT FOR THE EXPERIMENTER BY DAN DANFORTH

In. the original setup that Stan Meyer showed us, he used 36 volts as the
basic potential applied to the reaction chamber. He also commented that
stainless steel ( 410 not 403 ) was the only metal that could be used as
oxides formed with all others. His original chamber used 18 inch long by
0.375 inch diameter (o.d.) rod surrounded by 1 inch diameter (i.d.) 16 inch
long pipe. The reason for the difference in length is for mechanical ease
of construction. My prototype used 14 inch long rod and 12 inch long pipe
of similar diameters as the drawing indicates.

Having a severe lack of parts diversity here in Sri-Lanka, I was only able
to obtain a 24 volt. 8 amp transformer and built my circuitry around that.
The final output is 20 volts with Ml reading 10 amps to the pulsing circuit
which generates a symetricel squarewave ( 50% duty cycle ) to the flyback
inductor connected in series with the chamber as the schematic shows. The
flyback high voltage spike is directed across the chamber via c* end d*.
The use of a high voltage spike alone, without the current being delivered
through the liquid, will not cause the disassociation to take place. This I
verified using an ignition coil in place of the inductor and applied the
secondary with halfwave rectification and blocking capacitor to prevent
burn out to the chamber with no results. Apparently the current in the
water aligns the molecules approprately to allow the high voltege spike to
do its workr which in my opinion is the stimulation of molecular resonance.
Once Stan's unit was made to begin breakdown (which takes 6 to 8 seconds)
he was able to reduce both current and voltage to miniscule proportions. I
attribute this to sympathetic oscillation of the aligned molecules,
requiring very little in the way of additional excitation. A phenomena akin
to Tesla `s super resonance... resulting in Stan discovering that he only
had to supply three pulses in ten to satisfy the requirement of the
chamber. I have not yet had the opportunity to duplicate this portion of
the experiment but, in time I vill.

Duplication of the device described in these pages, however, will produce
the phenomena and hopefully launch other enterprising end inventive souls
on to designing their own refined models. It would be nice to have feedback
so that we can all collectively work to bring about the transition to
non-pollution energy.

P.S.- Tho electrical circuit is by no means optinised, but represents
instead the result of parts availability here. Any good technician could
improve on it quite readily.

There are two primary frequencies that produce the best results. They are.
14372 Hz and 43430 Hz. The former is about 50% more efficient, but it seems
that just about any frequency between 9 KHz and 143762 KHz works quite
well. 1) This is because the nature of the wave form ( a spike ) is rich in
harmonics and one of them is bound to be close to one of the two primary
frequencies.

Use of permanent magnets may also increase efficiency. I'll give you the
outcome of that attempt in my next letter along with the plans for what I
hope to be a much improved version.

Note: Sub-harmonics of the two primary frequencies at which dissociation
will occur:

43430 Hz             143762 HZ
SUBHARMONIC          SUBHABMONIC
1st 21715    HZ      1st 71881    HZ
2nd 14476.67 HZ      2nd 47920.67 HZ
3rd 15517.5  HZ      3rd 35840.1  HZ
4th 8686     Hz      4th 28752.4  HZ

*1500 VOLTS IS THE MINIMUM REQUIRED FOR MOLECULAR RINGING TO BEGIN.

The ball is now in your court.

Let's get the game started and have as many players as possible.

From the legal stand point it can be argued in an international court of
law that the vital need of this technology by every nation to aleviate the
critical threat to our environment globally is so greet as to justify
nullification of proprietry rights if those rights are used to delay or
prevent distribution of the technology and if such delay or prevention -
including measured and / or levied distribution so as to restrict or limit
its use, or for the purposes of financial profit isolate significent
economic groups from its use and if such acts previously mentioned can be
shown to cause an increased danger to life, persons involved in such acts
can be convicted of intent to do bodily harm by crime of omission.


