
                                                                  Here follows a complete text of the 30 June
                                                                  1982 European patent Publication N°
                                                                  0055134A1 

                                                                  BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION (text 8/8/96
                                                                  OCR-scanned and not yet corrected. Pl. Show patience.)

                                                                  THIS invention relates to hydrogen generation. 

                                                                  It has already been proposed to replace conventional fuels
                                                                  with hydrogen in the running of internal combustion
                                                                  engines. Conventional proposals are to produce hydrogen
                                                                  by the electrolysis of water and then to store the hydrogen
                                                                  in some form or another. No economically viable storage
                                                                  system for the highly explosive hydrogen gas has yet been
                                                                  evolved. Whatever system is evolved would involve fairly
                                                                  massive tanks of soine kind or another and precautions to
                                                                  prevent explosions. The present invention is based on the
                                                                  desire of the inventor to be able to provide hydrogen on
                                                                  demand from materials which are in themselves safe to
                                                                  handle. 

                                                                  SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION . According to the
                                                                  invention a method of generating hydrogen comprises the
                                                                  steps of exposing a fresh metal surface to water and heating
                                                                  the interface between the metal surface and the water at
                                                                  least to the lowest temperature at which the metal reacts
                                                                  with water to form a metal oxide and hydrogen, the metal
                                                                  being chosen from metals which are higher in the
                                                                  electromotive series than hydrogen and having stable and
                                                                  safe handling characteristics. Preferably the metal surface is
                                                                  exposed and the interface heated by pressing an electrode of
                                                                  the relevant metal against a second electrode under water
                                                                  and applying a high voltage between tle electrodes while
                                                                  preferably moving the electrode surfaces nelatively to one
                                                                  another. 

                                                                  In other words in the preferred form of the invention
                                                                  hydrogen is formed by creating an underwater electrical
                                                                  discharge between two electrodes at least one of which is
                                                                  made of a metal as defined above. 

                                                                  The electrical discharge and the relative movement
                                                                  between the electrode surfaces ensure that fresh metal
                                                                  surfaces are exposed to the water while at the same time
                                                                  the discharge heats thè interface between the electrodes and
                                                                  the water to the required temperature at which the metal
                                                                  reacts with water to form its oxide and to liberate
                                                                  hydrogen. 

                                                                  Also in the preferred form of the invention rile metal is
                                                                  alun!inium which has the advantage that it is in relatively
                                                                  abundant supply relatively cheap is formed with a
                                                                  protective oxide layer on its exposed surfaces and reacts
                                                                  with water at a relatively low temperature. Aluminium
                                                                  wire fed against a rotating aluminium drum has been found
                                                                  to give excellent results to provide hydrogen for powering
                                                                  small internal combustion engines. 

                                                                  A convenient way of securing the high voltage required is
                                                                  to employ the conventional distributor and coil
                                                                  arrangement which provides the sparking for an internal
                                                                  combustion engine. Two coils in parallel fed from a
                                                                  common distributor has been found to give excellent
                                                                  results. Other methods of generating high voltages from
                                                                  the battery or the drive shaft of an internal combustion
                                                                  engine may also be used. The method of the invention
                                                                  lends itself in an exellent manner to supply hydrogen on
                                                                  demand. In this case hydrogen is fed to a small buffer store
                                                                  and as the pressure in the store exceeds a predetermined
                                                                  level, the electrodes are separated so that hydrogen
                                                                  genetation is interrupted. As the pressure drops to a certain
                                                                  level the electrodes are again fed towards one another. 

                                                                  BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWING 

                                                                  The invention will now be further described, by way of
                                                                  example, with reference to the accompanying drawing, in
                                                                  which: Figure 1 is a schematic representation of apparatus
                                                                  for generating hydrogen, and suitable for powering a motor
                                                                  vehicle; and Figure 2 shows a portion of an appropriate
                                                                  electrical circuit. 

                                                                  DESCRIPTION OF A PREFERRED EMBODIMENT 

                                                                  In the illustrated embodiment there is a generating tank 10
                                                                  fed with water from a reservoir tank 11 through a float
                                                                  valve 12 to keep the water level 1o in the tank 10
                                                                  substantially constant. When the apparatus is used in a
                                                                  motor vehicle, the tank 11 can take the place of the
                                                                  conventional fuel tank of the vehicle with a pump 14 in
                                                                  the line 15 to pump more water into the tank 10 when the
                                                                  position of the float 12 indicates that this is required.
                                                                  Water is consumed as hydrogen is generated, and so the
                                                                  tank 11 has to be periodically refilled. The generating tank
                                                                  10 is in communication with an air cooled heat exchanger
                                                                  16, which may take the same form as a conventional
                                                                  motor car radiator. 

                                                                  The generating tank 10 is surmounted by a collecting
                                                                  vessel 17 from which hydrogen is drawn through a
                                                                  restricted orifice 18 of an internal combustion engine.
                                                                  Inside the tank 10 there is a drum 19 driven by any
                                                                  suitable means to rotate at a constant speed. The drum 19
                                                                  is made of aluminium. A depending flange 20 provides a
                                                                  water seal to the top left hand corner of the tank 10, so that
                                                                  that corner is not in gas communication with the vessel
                                                                  17. 

                                                                  A coil 21 of aluminium wire 22 is fed through a push-pull
                                                                  unit 23 of the kind used to feed welding wire to argon arc
                                                                  welding devices. The unit 23 is arranged to feed the wire
                                                                  against the surface 

                                                                  of the drum 19 and to traverse the wire along the length of
                                                                  the drum on a bar 24. the wire passes along a insulating
                                                                  sleeve 25 which enters the tank 10 through, a suitable
                                                                  wiper seal. 

                                                                  In the vessel 17 there is a pressure sensor 26 connected to
                                                                  a control unit 27. When the pressure sensor senses a
                                                                  pressure above a predetermined value,it signals the control
                                                                  unit 27 which in turn stops the unit 23 so that wire is no
                                                                  longer fed towards the drum 19. When the pressure drops
                                                                  again, feeding is resumed. 

                                                                  In use, the coil 21 is connected to the high tension side of
                                                                  s two ignition coils or transformers 30 and 33. These
                                                                  transformers have primary windings 31 and 34 and
                                                                  secondary, nigh tension windings 32 and 35. A capacitor
                                                                  36 is connected across the high tension connections. The
                                                                  terminals 28 and 29 are connected to a conventional
                                                                  vehicle battery. 

                                                                  At the point of contact between the end of the wire 22 and
                                                                  the drum 19 an electrical discharge takes place. As a result
                                                                  the adjacent metal surfaces are heated to high temperature
                                                                  the protective oxide film which naturally forms on exposed
                                                                  aluminium surfaces is disrupted, and the exposed
                                                                  aluminium surfaces react with the water. In fact the
                                                                  electrochimical situation at the interface is such that the
                                                                  wire 22 is consumed with the following reaction taking
                                                                  place. 

                                                                  2al+3h2o ---- A12 + 3H2 

                                                                  As a result, hydrogen bubbles from the contact point while
                                                                  the aluminium oxide collects as a white powder in the
                                                                  base of the tank 10. A grid 37 in the bottom of the tank
                                                                  allows the powder to pass through, and then keeps the
                                                                  powder substantially free from currents in the tank 10. The
                                                                  hydrogen passes through the vessel 17 and the orifice 18
                                                                  to the carburettor of an internal combustion engine. 

                                                                  There may be a tendency for bubbles of hydrogen to adhere
                                                                  to the surface of the drum 19 which rotates in the direction
                                                                  indicated by the arrow 38. to prevent this To prevent this
                                                                  happening a wipper blade 39 

                                                                  can be located in the position shown in Figure 1, so as to
                                                                  separate any adhering bubbles from the drum surface. 

                                                                  Alternatively, a wiper blade 40 may be arranged on the
                                                                  opposite side of the drum. In this case a small volume of
                                                                  hydrogen gas may collect 5 beneath this blade, and it may
                                                                  be possible to pivot the blade 40, thus releasing this
                                                                  pocket of hydrogen in order to facilitate startup of an
                                                                  engine fueled by the hydrogen. 

                                                                  It may be possible to use salt water in the tank 10, rather
                                                                  than fresh water. 

                                                                  The drum 19 preferably rotates at a speed between 400 and
                                                                  700 rpm, but the rotation may be as slow as 50 rpm. 

                                                                  During operations the temperature of the water in the tank
                                                                  10 may rise as high as 95°C, although it is likely that a
                                                                  unit mounted in a moving vehicle, for example, will be
                                                                  able to maintain the water at a lower temperature. 

                                                                  A unit substantially as shown in the drawings has been
                                                                  used to drive a 500cc motor cycle engine. The wire 22 had
                                                                  a diameter of 1,6 mm and was of commercial purity
                                                                  (98°'~A1). The unit produced over 1000 cc of hydrogen a
                                                                  minute, with an aluminium wire consumption rate of 140
                                                                  to 180 cm per minute. The rate of deposition of
                                                                  aluminium oxide was about 4 kilograms per 500
                                                                  kilometers travelled. 

                                                                  Conventional modifications were made to the carburettor
                                                                  to enable the engine to run on a mixture of hydrogen and
                                                                  air. The wire 22 carries a voltage of about 18000 volts
                                                                  with a current of about 1 amp. 

                                                                  The invention may equally be used to power stationary
                                                                  industrial engines ,as well as motor vehicle engines. 

                                                                  CLAIMS 

                                                                  1- Apparatus for generating hydrogen comprising a tank 10
                                                                  for containing water, a metal surface (22) arranged in the
                                                                  tank, means for heating the surface at least to the lowest
                                                                  temperature at which the metal reacts with water to form a
                                                                  metal oxide and hydrogen, and a chamber (17) for
                                                                  collecting the generated hydrogen. 

                                                                  2- Apparatus as claimed in Claim 1, wherein the metal
                                                                  surface (22) is aluminium. 

                                                                  3- Apparatus as claim 1 or Claim 2, wherein the means for
                                                                  heating the surface in an electrical discharge between the
                                                                  surface (22) and another electrode (14) 

                                                                  4- 

                                                                  Apparatus as claimed 4, wherein a second metal surface
                                                                  (19) i arranged in the tank, and means are provided to
                                                                  move one surface (19) relative to the other, the two
                                                                  surfaces being connected in an electric circuit (Figure 2) so
                                                                  that they form electrodes between which an electrical
                                                                  discharge can take place. 

                                                                  5- Apparatus as claimed in Claim 4, wherein the second
                                                                  metal surface is aluminium (19). 

                                                                  6. Apparatus as claimed in Claim 4 or Claim 5, wherein
                                                                  the first metal surface (22) is a wire and the second metal
                                                                  surface (19) is a drum, the drum being mounted for
                                                                  rotation and the wire being supported so that it approaches
                                                                  the cylindrical surface of the drum at an angle to a tangent
                                                                  to the drum surface. 

                                                                  7. Apparatus as claimed in Claim 6, wherein the wire (22)
                                                                  is supported by a device (23) which continuously feeds the
                                                                  wire, as it is consumed, towards the drum surface (19). 

                                                                  8. Apparatus as claimed in Claim 7, wherein means
                                                                  (26,27) are provided for sensing the pressure of hydrogen
                                                                  gas in the chamber (17) and for regulating the feed rate of
                                                                  the wire feeding device (23) in accordance with the sensed
                                                                  pressure, to control the hydrogen output. 

                                                                  9. Apparatus as claimed in any preceding claim, wherein
                                                                  the tank (10) is connected to a heat exchanger (16), so that
                                                                  water can circulate from the tank, through the heat
                                                                  exchanger, and back to the tank. 

                                                                  10. A method of generating hydrogen comprising the steps
                                                                  of exposing a fresh metal surface (22) to water and heating
                                                                  the interface between the metal surface and the water at
                                                                  least to the lowest temperature at which the metal reacts
                                                                  with water to form a metal oxide and hydrogen, the metal
                                                                  being chosen from metals which are higher in the
                                                                  electromotive series than hydrogen and which have stable
                                                                  and safe handling characteristics. 

                                                                  11. A method as claimed in claim 10, wherein the metal
                                                                  (22) is aluminium, and a fresh metal surface is exposed
                                                                  and the interface heated by pressing an aluminium
                                                                  electrode (22) against a second electrode (19) under water
                                                                  and appling a high voltagebetween the electrodes. 